---
layout: default
title: Open Australia development of website and parser
---
h1. Open Australia development of website and parser

Welcome to the development site for "openaustralia.org":http://www.openaustralia.org/. This is where we host the bug database for openaustralia.org.

The Open Australia software consists of two main components, the web application which is based on code from the UK site "theyworkforyou.com":http://theyworkforyou.com and a web scraper / parser which was written from scratch for downloading and parsing the Hansard data from the "Australian Parliament website":http://www.aph.gov.au.

All of the software is *free* and *open source*.

The web application code is licensed under a "BSD type license":https://secure.mysociety.org/cvstrac/fileview?f=mysociety/twfy/LICENSE.txt&v=1.1. The web scraper / parser is licensed under the "GNU Affero General Public License":http://github.com/mlandauer/openaustralia-parser/tree/master%2FLICENSE.txt?raw=true.

h2. Mailing List

We have a mailing list for discussions about OpenAustralia software development. If you’re interested, please do sign up or visit the group on your right.

h2. Bug Database

*Latest news*: We've just migrated from "Trac":http://trac.edgewall.org/ to "Jira":http://www.atlassian.com/software/jira/ for maintaining a list of bugs and desired features. Everything is now available at "tickets.openaustralia.org":http://tickets.openaustralia.org/.

* You can "view the tickets":http://tickets.openaustralia.org/browse/OA.
* If you find a bug or want to suggest a new feature please "create a new ticket":http://tickets.openaustralia.org/secure/CreateIssue!default.jspa.

Note that you will need to "signup":http://tickets.openaustralia.org/secure/Signup!default.jspa for an account before you can create or modify tickets.

There is also a "&#8220;big picture&#8221; overview of ideas for the future":http://trac2.assembla.com/openaustralia/wiki/TowardsTheFuture.

h2. Download the software

You can browse the source code on "GitHub":http://www.github.com/ for the "parser":http://github.com/mlandauer/openaustralia-parser/tree/master and the "web application":http://github.com/mlandauer/twfy/tree/master.

To download the software that runs OpenAustralia you will need to it to get it from our source code repository. We use "git":http://git.or.cz/ for version control.

To check out the latest parser and web application code:

<pre>
git clone git://github.com/mlandauer/openaustralia.git
cd openaustralia
git submodule init
git submodule update
</pre>

h2. Install Instructions

Read the "install instructions online":http://github.com/mlandauer/openaustralia-parser/tree/master/INSTALL.textile, or alternatively read them in INSTALL.textile in the openaustralia-parser download. There is also a "quick guide on how to contribute code":http://trac2.assembla.com/openaustralia/wiki/HowToContribute to OpenAustralia.
